---
layout: know
title: intro
permalink: '/know'
---

## Who is this guide for?
- You have more time on your hands and you're considering starting a YouTube channel to generate passive income on the side (if so, then keep reading!)
- You already have a small channel and are looking to grow faster (see [Understand video performance]({{ '/know/how-to-understand-video-performance#content' | relative_url }})) 
- You're a seasoned creator but are looking to optimize your channel maintenance process (see [Sustain channel growth]({{ '/know/how-to-sustain-channel-growth#content' | relative_url }}))

There will be useful information for creators in both beginning and intermediate stages. If you're striving to grow, this is the right place for you. 

**Note**

There is A LOT of content on this guide. Please bookmark this site so you can come back to digest information section by section, or to see new updates for extra brain food 🙂.

## Why should I even try to do YouTube?
5 Reasons why the YouTube hustle is amazing:

 1. It's a great stream of passive income; each video will
    continuously generate money so long as it attracts viewers 
 2. Each new video you post will attract more viewers to your previous videos and channel overall, which means views for your channel can accumulate *extremely rapidly*
 3. YouTube can be used to build a personal brand, especially for lifestyle and business coaches
 4. Not only can you earn money from ad revenue as a YouTube partner,
     you can gain brand sponsorships once you attract a stable amount of viewership
 5. On top of that, you can use the platform to market your own merchandise or services
 6. Once you reach a stable level of income from YouTube, you have the opportunity to do it full time--you are your own boss and you determine your own work hours and setting


However, this line of work is frequently glorified. Before you read any further, you need to know this: **Success is not going to be fast or easy, and there's no guaranteed way to succeed. But, there 100% are strategies you can apply to immensely increase your chances of succeeding.** This guide will teach you actionable steps toward reaching your channel goals as well as learning what mistakes to avoid.

## Is it worth starting a YouTube channel in 2021?
Short answer: Yes, in an untapped niche.

YouTube as a platform is growing in viewership, as generations switch from watching cable TV to watching online media. You can even watch election debates, favorite celebrity lives, or your favorite game streamer on the platform. It's on the trajectory to attract the audience of online streaming services like Hulu and Netflix especially with YouTube TV. 

The more viewers there are on the platform, the more opportunities to catch an audience's attention.

Don't believe YouTube's growth? The statistics can speak for themselves.

**YouTube annual ad revenue** / _Source:_ [_Alphabet_](https://abc.xyz/investor/static/pdf/2019Q4_alphabet_earnings_release.pdf?cache=05bd9fe)

| Year | USD (billions) |
|--|--|
| 2017 | 8.15 |
| 2018 | 11.16 |
| 2019 | 15.15 |

**YouTube usage stats** /  _Source_: [_YouTube_](https://www.youtube.com/intl/en-GB/about/press/)

 - Globally, over 2 billion logged-in users visit YouTube each month, and every day people watch over a billion hours of video and generate billions of views. 
 - The number of channels earning six figures per year on YouTube grew more than 40% y/y.
-   The number of channels earning five figures per year on YouTube grew more than 50% y/y.
-   The number of channels with more than one million subscribers grew by more than 65% y/y.

YouTube continues to be one of the most widely used online platform among adults ([_Pew Research Center_]((https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2019/04/10/share-of-u-s-adults-using-social-media-including-facebook-is-mostly-unchanged-since-2018/ft_19-04-10_socialmedia2019_facebookyoutube_2/) )), where most of its viewership lean toward the younger audience ([_Statista_](https://www.statista.com/statistics/296227/us-youtube-reach-age-gender/)). 

It's irrefutable that there is an enormous online entertainment ecosystem to generate revenue from through video content creation.

